docs: remove annotations-based l7 visibility (#28449)
cilium-team/cilium: Documentation/observability/visibility.rst

.. note::

    This feature requires enabling L7 Proxy support.

While :ref:`monitor` provides introspection into datapath state, by default, it
will only provide visibility into L3/L4 packet events. If you want L7
protocol visibility, you can use L7 Cilium Network Policies (see :ref:`l7_policy`).

.. note::

    Historically, it had been possible to enable L7 visibility using Pod
    annotations (``policy.cilium.io/proxy-visibility``). This method is
    no longer supported and we recommend users to switch to L7 policies instead.

> To enable visibility for L7 traffic, create a ``CiliumNetworkPolicy`` that specifies

Reviewer: I think it's critical to make it crystal clear to users that this is not just a visibility policy, this is allowing traffic matching the statements below to flow. That was previously the difference between visibility policy vs this; visibility did not change the actual policy behaviour of network flows.

Author: this is why I had `toEntities: [ all ]`  at the end of the policy in the beginning -- to make the example behave more like a visibility policy. @joestringer do you think it's worth adding that catch-all rule back or just stress the point that this is a network policy that will drop traffic in the text?
see [this comment](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/pull/28449#discussion_r1353069344) for more context

Reviewer: I think my feedback is less about the policy and more about having a dedicated paragraph  of test to frame the solution. My thought is that when users scan through the doc, they should see that the position of the project is "we don't have a dedicated visibility-only solution, the way to solve this problem is with enforcement network policy and hence you need to do this with awareness of the security impacts".

When I scanned through, I saw "if you want visibility, do this:" without a clear statement that describes that this has security implications.

Author: yep, makes sense. I've added a mention of this to a couple of places in the text

Reviewer: LGTM thanks

.. note::

    This feature requires enabling L7 Proxy support.

> While :ref:`monitor` provides introspection into data path state, by default, it
> will only provide visibility into L3/L4 packet events. If you want to get L7
> protocol visibility you can use L7 Cilium Network Policies (see :ref:`l7_policy`).

Reviewer 2: Small suggestions on wording and spelling:

```suggestion
While :ref:`monitor` provides introspection into datapath state, by default, it
will only provide visibility into L3/L4 packet events. If you want L7
protocol visibility, you can use L7 Cilium Network Policies (see :ref:`l7_policy`).
```

.. note::

    Historically, it had been possible to enable L7 visibility using Pod
    annotations (``policy.cilium.io/proxy-visibility``). This method is

>     no longer supported and we recommend users to switch to L7 policies instead.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure how I feel about adding a note like this. Would you be up for removing it? It might add some maintenance overhead, as we'd likely have to come back in a release or two and remove it anyway.

Reviewer 2: This kind of note might make more sense for release notes or the upgrade guide

Author: I feel like it makes sense to keep this note here at least for the 1.15 release. So that it's clear when we've decided to deprecate it (without going through release notes).  But it's not a strong opinion, so I'm happy to remove it.

Reviewer 2: Ah I see what you're saying, that's a good point. Let's keep it in.

The following example demonstrates how to enable DNS and HTTP visibility for all
traffic within the ``default`` namespace. We do that by creating a ``CilimNetworkPolicy`` 
resource containing two L7 rules -- one for DNS and one for HTTP traffic. 
If all you're interested in is visibility, you can omit or wildcard

> the L7 matching conditions as it is shown below:

Reviewer 2: Can you adjust this description to be more specific to the ports that the policy mentions? A user might be confused reading this because you state that the policy will 'enable ... HTTP visibility for all traffic...' when it will only enable visibility for HTTP traffic flowing on ports 80 and 8080.

Also, can you rephrase this paragraph to refer to the reader as 'you' instead of as 'we'?

.. code-block:: yaml

      apiVersion: "cilium.io/v2"
      kind: CiliumNetworkPolicy
      metadata:
        name: "l7-visibility"
      spec:
        endpointSelector:
          matchLabels:
            "k8s:io.kubernetes.pod.namespace": default
        egress:
        - toPorts:
          - ports:
            - port: "53"
              protocol: ANY
            rules:
              dns:
              - matchPattern: "*"
        - toEndpoints:
          - matchLabels:
              "k8s:io.kubernetes.pod.namespace": default
          toPorts:
          - ports:
            - port: "80"
              protocol: TCP
            - port: "8080"
              protocol: TCP
            rules:
              http: [{}]
        - toEntities:
          - all

The final rule allowing all egress traffic (``toEntities: [ all ]``) is
optional and can be removed or replaced with a more specific set of rules.

Based on the above policy, Cilium will pick up all UDP/53, TCP/80 and TCP/8080 
egress traffic from Pods in the ``default`` namespace and redirect it to the 

> proxy such that the output of ``cilium monitor`` or ``hubble observe`` shows 

Reviewer 2: Do we have documentation on the proxy? If so, can you link it here? This would help users who have no idea what the proxy is.

the L7 flow details:

::

>     default/testapp-5b9cc645cb-4slbs:45240 (ID:26450) -> kube-system/coredns-787d4945fb-bdmdq:53 (ID:9313) dns-request proxy FORWARDED (DNS Query web.default.svc.cluster.local. A)

Reviewer 2: Can you add the command that was used to generate this output? I think it makes sense to be specific here, since I'm not sure if this is from `hubble observe` or `cilium monitor`

.. note::

    This feature requires enabling L7 Proxy support.

While :ref:`monitor` provides introspection into datapath state, by default, it
will only provide visibility into L3/L4 packet events. If you want L7
protocol visibility, you can use L7 Cilium Network Policies (see :ref:`l7_policy`).

.. note::

    Historically, it had been possible to enable L7 visibility using Pod
    annotations (``policy.cilium.io/proxy-visibility``). This method is
    no longer supported and we recommend users to switch to L7 policies instead.

> The following example demonstrates how to enable visibility for all DNS (UDP/53)
> and HTTP (ports TCP/80 and TCP/8080) traffic within the ``default`` namespace. 
> You do that by creating a ``CilimNetworkPolicy`` resource containing two L7 rules 
> -- one for DNS and one for HTTP traffic. If all you're interested in is visibility, 
> you can omit or wildcard the L7 matching conditions as it is shown below:

Reviewer 2: I have a suggestion for rewording this a little to pad it out. I think it also makes sense to make it more clear that when we omit or wildcard these rules, we are explicitly permitting all traffic that matches the ports in those rules.

```suggestion
To enable visibility for L7 traffic, create a ``CiliumNetworkPolicy`` that specifies
L7 rules. Traffic matching a L7 rule in a ``CiliumNetworkPolicy`` will become
visible. The following example enables visibility for DNS (UDP/53) and HTTP
(ports TCP/80 and TCP/8080) traffic within the ``default`` namespace by
specifying two L7 rules -- one for DNS and one for HTTP. L7 matching
conditions on the rules have been omitted or wildcarded, which will
permit all requests that match the L4 section of each rule:
```

.. code-block:: yaml

      apiVersion: "cilium.io/v2"
      kind: CiliumNetworkPolicy
      metadata:
        name: "l7-visibility"
      spec:
        endpointSelector:
          matchLabels:
            "k8s:io.kubernetes.pod.namespace": default
        egress:
        - toPorts:
          - ports:
            - port: "53"

>               protocol: ANY

Reviewer 2: Does this need to be UDP instead of ANY?

```suggestion
              protocol: UDP
```

Author: I've modified the description to reflect UDP and TCP protocols since DNS proxy listens on both,

            rules:
              dns:
              - matchPattern: "*"
        - toEndpoints:
          - matchLabels:
              "k8s:io.kubernetes.pod.namespace": default
          toPorts:
          - ports:
            - port: "80"
              protocol: TCP
            - port: "8080"
              protocol: TCP
            rules:
              http: [{}]
        - toEntities:
          - all

The final rule allowing all egress traffic (``toEntities: [ all ]``) is

> optional and can be removed or replaced with a more specific set of rules.

Reviewer 2: Can we remove this part? I don't think it fits here since we are just talking about L7 visibility, rather than constructing a policy in general.

Based on the above policy, Cilium will pick up all UDP/53, TCP/80 and TCP/8080 
egress traffic from Pods in the ``default`` namespace and redirect it to the 

> proxy (see :ref:`proxy_injection`) such that the output of ``cilium monitor`` or ``hubble observe`` shows 

Reviewer 2: Could you wrap line 71 so it matches the line length of the rest of the page?
